Button usage updates (#1306)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/components/button/usage.mdx

<AnchorLinks>

<AnchorLink>Overview</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Live demo</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Formatting</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Content</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Modifiers</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Related</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>References</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Feedback</AnchorLink>

</AnchorLinks>

## Overview

Buttons are clickable elements that are used to trigger actions. They communicate calls to action to the user and allow users to with pages in a variety of ways. Button labels express what action will occur when the user interacts with it.

#### When to use

> Buttons are clickable elements that are used to trigger actions. They communicate calls to action to the user and allow users to with pages in a variety of ways. Button labels express what action will occur when the user interacts with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use buttons to communicate actions users can take and allow them to interact with the page. Each page should have one primary button, and any remaining calls-to-action should be represented as lower emphasis buttons.
```
I think this paragraph should be different than the overview above. I wrote this up quickly so feel free to take or leave the suggested content 🙂

<AnchorLinks>

<AnchorLink>Overview</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Live demo</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Formatting</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Content</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Behavior</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Modifiers</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Related</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>References</AnchorLink>
<AnchorLink>Feedback</AnchorLink>

</AnchorLinks>

## Overview

Buttons are clickable elements that are used to trigger actions. They communicate calls to action to the user and allow users to interact with pages in a variety of ways. Button labels express what action will occur when the user interacts with it.

#### When to use

> Use buttons to communicate actions users can take and allow them to interact with the page. Each page should have one primary button, and any remaining calls-to-action should be represented as lower emphasis buttons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use buttons to communicate actions users can take and to allow users to interact with the page. Each page should have one primary button, and any remaining calls-to-action should be represented as lower emphasis buttons.
```

Author: the last "When to use" comment I fixed manually in VS Code because for some reason it wouldn't let me commit it here, but it's updated anyway.

#### When not to use

Do not use buttons as navigational elements. Instead, use [links](https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/components/link/usage) when the desired action is to take the user to a new page.

### Button types

<Row>
<Column colLg={12}>

![Button types](images/button_usage_1.png)

</Column>
</Row>

| Type        | Purpose                                                                                                                                                       |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| _Primary_   | For the principal call to action on the page. Primary buttons should only appear once per screen (not including the application header or in a modal dialog). |
| _Secondary_ | For secondary actions on each page; these can only be used  in conjunction with a primary button.                                                             |

> | _Tertiary_  | For less prominent actions; tertiary buttons can be used in isolation  or pair with a primary button when there are multiple calls-to-action.                 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| _Tertiary_  | For less prominent actions; tertiary buttons can be used in isolation  or paired with a primary button when there are multiple calls to action.                 |
```

| _Danger_    | For actions that could have destructive effects on the user’s data  (delete, remove, etc.).                                                                   |

> | _Ghost_     | For the least pronounced actions; often used in conjunction with primary buttons.                                                                             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| _Ghost_     | For the least pronounced actions; often used in conjunction with a primary button.                                                                             |
```

C. Icon

</Column>
</Row>

<DoDontRow>
  <DoDont caption="Do left-align text in a button, even if the buttons is wide.">

![Do left-align text in a button, even if the buttons is wide.](images/button_usage_5.png)

  </DoDont>
  <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not center text in a button, even if the button is wide.">

![Do not center text in a button, even if the button is wide.](images/button_usage_6.png)

  </DoDont>
</DoDontRow>

### Button size

Buttons are named according to their size and usage in the Carbon Sketch kit and in the code. The table below adds more context around the use case for each size.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Button sizes](images/button_usage_3.png)

</Column>
</Row>

| Name         | Height (px/rem) | Use Case                                                                           |
| ------------ | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| _Full bleed_ | 64/4            | Use when buttons bleed to the edge of a component, like in side panels and modals. |  |
| _Default_    | 48/3            | Use as primary page actions and other standalone actions.                          |

> | _Field_      | 40/2.5          | Use when buttons are paired with input fields.                                     |

Author: Yes! good catch I updated this.

In some cases a button group—or even a single button in the case of a side panel or small tile—may span the entire width of a window or container. Typical nested button locations include:

- Banner CTAs
- Dialog windows
- Wizards
- Forms
- Cards
- Toolbars

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Primary button context](images/button_usage_10.png)

</Column>
</Row>

| Alignment         | Use case                                                                                                           |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| _Left-justified_  | Banner call-to-actions, in-page forms and nested buttons in components like tiles                                  |
| _Right-justified_ | Inline notifications, inline field buttons and  data tables, progressive forms, wizards and single-button diaglogs |
| _Full span_       | Dialogs, side panels and small tiles (optional treatment)                                                          |

#### Fluid vs. fixed buttons

> Button alignment is also closely related to whether the button is treated as a fixed or a fluid element within a layout. When we say “fluid,” we mean that the button becomes a part of a larger, compound component by bleeding to two or more edges of its container. Rather than defining the a fluid button’s width in columns or mini units, it’s width is defined as a percentage of the container’s width. Also, as a general rule, fluid buttons are never left-aligned in a layout or a container — they’re always either right-aligned, or span the full width of the container. (Typically they span 50%… add something about that)

Author: Yes! Thanks. I updated this.

  `}</ComponentVariant>
</ComponentDemo>

## Formatting

### Anatomy

> A button’s text label is the most important element on a button, as it communicates the action that will be performed when the user touches it. In a contained button the text is always left-aligned, not centered. By default Carbon uses sentence case for all button labels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A button’s text label is the most important element on a button, as it communicates the action that will be performed when the user interacts with it. In a contained button the text is always left-aligned, not centered. By default Carbon uses sentence case for all button labels.
```

If a text label is not used, an icon should be present to signify what the button does.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Button anatomy](images/button_usage_2.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<Row>
<Column colSm={2} colMd={4} colLg={4}>

#### 1. Contained button

A. Text label <br />
B. Container <br />
C. Icon (optional)

#### 3. Ghost button

A. Text label <br />
C. Icon (optional)

</Column>
<Column colSm={2} colMd={4} colLg={4}>

#### 2. Outlined button

A. Text label <br />
B. Container <br />
C. Icon (optional)

#### 4. Icon button

B. Container (optional) <br />
C. Icon

> </Column>

Reviewer 2: Really liking this image and callouts!

Author: Yes maybe we can do this more!

</Row>

<DoDontRow>

>   <DoDont caption="Do left-align text in a button, even if the buttons is wide.">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <DoDont caption="Do left-align text in a button, even if the button is wide.">
```

> ![Do left-align text in a button, even if the buttons is wide.](images/button_usage_5.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Do left-align text in a button, even if the buttons is wide.](images/button_usage_5.png)
```
```suggestion
![Do left-align text in a button, even if the button is wide.](images/button_usage_5.png)
```

  </DoDont>
  <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not center text in a button, even if the button is wide.">

![Do not center text in a button, even if the button is wide.](images/button_usage_6.png)

  </DoDont>
</DoDontRow>

### Button size

Buttons are named according to their size and usage in the Carbon Sketch kit and in the code. The table below adds more context around the use case for each size.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Button sizes](images/button_usage_3.png)

</Column>
</Row>

| Name         | Height (px/rem) | Use Case                                                                           |
| ------------ | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | _Full bleed_ | 64/4            | Use when buttons bleed to the edge of a component, like in side panels and modals. |  |

Author: I specifically do not want to remove this because it is a part of a coded component that we offer and it's widely seen in side panels all over product. I changed it to this instead of removing: 

"Use when buttons bleed to the edge of a larger component, like side panels or modals. This variant is not offered in the kit because it does not currently have a coded counterpart. Carbon only offers it in the context of the [modal component](components/modal/usage)."

| _Default_    | 48/3            | Use as primary page actions and other standalone actions.                          |
| _Field_      | 40/2.5          | Use when buttons are paired with input fields.                                     |
| _Small_      | 32/2            | Use when there is not enough vertical space for the default or field-sized button. |

### Emphasis

> You don’t necessarily need to use the buttons in the order that their labels imply. For example, you don’t always need to use the secondary button as the second button in your layout. The most important thing is to establish a visual hierarchy between the buttons in your UI. Keep these best practises in mind.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You don’t necessarily need to use the buttons in the order that their labels imply. For example, you don’t always need to use the secondary button as the second button in your layout. The most important thing is to establish a visual hierarchy between the buttons in your UI. Keep these best practices in mind.
```

#### A single, high-emphasis button

As a general rule, a layout should contain a single high-emphasis button that makes it clear that other buttons have less importance in the hierarchy. This high-emphasis button commands the most attention.

#### Multiple button emphasis

A high-emphasis button can be accompanied by medium- and low-emphasis buttons that perform less important actions. Keep in mind that you should only group together calls to action that have a relationship to one another.

Although secondary buttons have less visual prominence because they are less saturated than their primary counterparts, they are still tonally heavy. If your layout requires multiple actions—as is the case with some toolbars, data lists and dashboards—low emphasis buttons (tertiary or ghost) may be a better choice.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Button emphasis](images/button_usage_7.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<DoDontRow>

>   <DoDont caption="Do use high emphasis and medium emphasis buttons in a button group.">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <DoDont caption="Do use high-emphasis and medium-emphasis buttons in a button group.">
```

> ![Do use high emphasis and medium emphasis buttons in a button group.](images/button_usage_8_test.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Do use high-emphasis and medium-emphasis buttons in a button group.](images/button_usage_8_test.png)
```

  </DoDont>
  <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not center text in a button, even if the button is wide.">

![Do not center text in a button, even if the button is wide.](images/button_usage_9_test.png)

  </DoDont>
</DoDontRow>

### Alignment

> Alignment refers to whether the buttons are aligned to the right or the left of a window, container or layout. Buttons are unique in that, more so than any other component, their alignment depends on where they appear and whether or not they’re contained within another component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alignment refers to whether the buttons are aligned to the right or the left of a window, container, or layout. Buttons are unique, more so than any other component, in that their alignment depends on where they appear and whether or not they’re contained within another component.
```

> As a general rule, on full-page designs, the primary button is on the left side of the page. When the browser window is large and the user is scrolling to read, it’s best to have the primary button where the user’s attention has been focused all along. Whereas in wizards, where a user is progressing through a series of steps or dialog windows, the primary action traditionally sits at the bottom right. Buttons within components such as notifications, search fields and data tables are also right-aligned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a general rule, on full-page designs, the primary button is on the left side of the page. When the browser window is large and the user is scrolling to read, it’s best to have the primary button where the user’s attention has been focused all along. Whereas in wizards, where a user is progressing through a series of steps or dialog windows, the primary action traditionally sits at the bottom right. Buttons within components such as notifications, search fields, and data tables are also right-aligned.
```

>   <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not center text in a button, even if the button is wide.">

Reviewer 3: I think the "Don't" caption here refers to something else; seems like it should be "don't use more than one Primary button".
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/35537391/85622530-f6990700-b634-11ea-88d1-7fc1721d1f83.png)

Author: Thanks Con Bon!!! Good catch!

In some cases a button group—or even a single button in the case of a side panel or small tile—may span the entire width of a window or container. Typical nested button locations include:

> - Banner CTAs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Banner calls to action
```

- Dialog windows
- Wizards
- Forms
- Cards
- Toolbars

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Primary button context](images/button_usage_10.png)

</Column>
</Row>

| Alignment         | Use case                                                                                                           |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | _Left-justified_  | Banner call-to-actions, in-page forms and nested buttons in components like tiles                                  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| _Left-justified_  | Banner call to actions, in-page forms, and nested buttons in components like tiles                                  |
```

> | _Right-justified_ | Inline notifications, inline field buttons and  data tables, progressive forms, wizards and single-button diaglogs |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| _Right-justified_ | Inline notifications, inline field buttons and  data tables, progressive forms, wizards, and single-button dialogs |
```

> | _Full span_       | Dialogs, side panels and small tiles (optional treatment)                                                          |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| _Full span_       | Dialogs, side panels, and small tiles (optional treatment)                                                          |
```

> | _Full span_       | Dialogs, side panels, and small tiles (optional treatment)                                                          |

Author: Again, because this exists in product — even in tiles in Security, I want to talk about and not discourage the use case. I wrote this 

Dialogs, side panels, and small tiles; currently Carbon does not offer a way to implement full-span buttons in code, without an override, they max out at 320px

> #### Fluid vs. fixed buttons

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Fluid versus fixed buttons
```

> Button alignment is also closely related to whether the button is treated as a fixed or a fluid element within a layout. When we say “fluid,” we mean that the button becomes a part of a larger, compound component by bleeding to two or more edges of its container. Rather than defining the a fluid button’s width in columns or mini units, it’s width is defined as a percentage (often 50%) of the container’s width. Also, as a general rule, fluid buttons are never left-aligned in a layout or a container — they’re always either right-aligned, or span the full width of the container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Button alignment is also closely related to whether the button is treated as a fixed or a fluid element within a layout. When we say “fluid”, we mean that the button becomes a part of a larger, compound component by bleeding to two or more edges of its container. Rather than defining the a fluid button’s width in columns or mini units, its width is defined as a percentage (often 50%) of the container’s width. Also, as a general rule, fluid buttons are never left-aligned in a layout or a container — they’re always either right-aligned, or span the full width of the container.
```

> Button alignment is also closely related to whether the button is treated as a fixed or a fluid element within a layout. When we say “fluid”, we mean that the button becomes a part of a larger, compound component by bleeding to two or more edges of its container. Rather than defining the a fluid button’s width in columns or mini units, its width is defined as a percentage (often 50%) of the container’s width. Also, as a general rule, fluid buttons are never left-aligned in a layout or a container — they’re always either right-aligned, or span the full width of the container.

Reviewer 4: Talking about a fluid button here can be confusing as we don't have a way to refer to this in code. Similar to the full bleed stuff, might make sense to try and ship this functionality together otherwise we end in a situation where design and dev are mismatched when building.

Author: Again, we need language to talk about this, because it exists in product and in a component that we ship and I consider it a foundational visual characteristic of the system.

Fluid components like button never exist in isolation. As you can see in the examples above, they are always part of another component, like modal or form. Other fluid components include tiles and most recently, [text inputs](/components/text-input/usage).

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a fluid input field and fluid button](images/button_usage_11.png)

<Caption>

>   Example of a login screen using a fluid input field and a fluid buttons

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Example of a login screen using a fluid input field and a fluid button
```

</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

<DoDontRow>

>   <DoDont caption="Do bleed ghost button hovers when they are paired with a other fluid buttons.">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <DoDont caption="Do bleed ghost button hovers when they are paired with other fluid buttons.">
```

> ![Do bleed ghost button hovers when they are paired with a other fluid buttons.](images/button_usage_12.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Do bleed ghost button hovers when they are paired with other fluid buttons.](images/button_usage_12.png)
```

  </DoDont>
  <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not use a tertiary button in a fluid application.">

![Do not use a tertiary button in a fluid application.](images/button_usage_13.png)

  </DoDont>
</DoDontRow>

#### Fluid button border

> Many product designers have approached us looking for more guidance around borders between all fluid buttons. Although we haven’t made [this update](https://github.com/carbon-design-system/carbon/issues/5638) yet, we plan to add a 1px border between all fluid buttons that calls the \$ui-03 token for subtle borders. This feature will add a 3:1 distinction between the two interactive UI elements. The border is a recommended feature to improve accessibility in data visualizations and the same logic should apply here.

Reviewer 4: Similar to the fluid button comment above, might help to defer on this section until we have a way to talk about this in design and code. The callout to the issue can be misleading because it's talking about adding behavior to fluid buttons, which is not something we currently offer and the linked issue isn't something that's on our immediate roadmap.

Author: This is an update that we're adding to modal, questions about 3:1 accessibility with modals buttons are all over our support channel, we need to notify our community about this update.

![Example of $ui-03 token border between fluid buttons](images/button_usage_14.png)

<Caption>Example of $ui-03 token border between fluid buttons</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

#### Using the grid

By default the container’s width is set to the size of the text label with 64px fixed padding on the right side and 16px fixed padding on the left. However, when possible set the button container’s relative position to the responsive layout grid and match buttton width to the other elements on the page. Ideally, when using groups of related buttons (not including ghost buttons), they should all be the same width.
See [button groups](#Button-groups) below for more detailed information.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Example of a primary button matching the width of a card in a layout](images/button_usage_15_test.png)

<Caption>
  Example of a primary button matching the width of a card in a layout
</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

### Button groups

Button groups are a useful way of aligning buttons that have a relationship. Group the buttons logically into sets based on usage and importance. Too many calls to action will overwhelm and confuse users so they should be avoided.

> As mentioned in the [Emphasis section](#Emphasis), you don’t necessarily need to use the buttons in the order that their labels imply. Either a secondary or a tertiary button can be used in conjunction with a primary button. In fact, due to the visual weight of the secondary button, it’s recommended to use tertiary or ghost buttons in layouts more than three CTAs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the [Emphasis section](#Emphasis), you don’t necessarily need to use the buttons in the order that their labels imply. Either a secondary or a tertiary button can be used in conjunction with a primary button. In fact, due to the visual weight of the secondary button, it’s recommended to use tertiary or ghost buttons in layouts with more than three calls to action.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![multiple buttons in a layout](images/button_usage_16.png)

</Column>
</Row>

<DoDontRow>
  <DoDont caption="Do use a primary and two of the same lower emphasis buttons in a button group.">

![Do use a primary and two of the same lower emphasis buttons in a button group.](images/button_usage_17.png)

  </DoDont>

>   <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not mix primary, secondary and tertiary buttons in the same button group.">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not mix primary, secondary, and tertiary buttons in the same button group.">
```

> ![Do not mix primary, secondary and tertiary buttons in the same button group.](images/button_usage_18.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Do not mix primary, secondary, and tertiary buttons in the same button group.](images/button_usage_18.png)
```

  </DoDont>
</DoDontRow>

#### Button groups and the grid

Ideally, when using groups of related buttons (not including ghost buttons), they should all be the same width. This can be achieved in one of two ways, both of which are acceptable. The first approach involves using the [narrow grid mode](/guidelines/2x-grid/code). In this situation each button would be set individually on the column grid.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Example of hanging buttons on the grid](images/button_usage_19.png)

Reviewer 4: Might help to defer on this example until we have docs and implementation for hanging on the grid. This can cause a mismatch between design intent and development where a developer is unsure how to implement something and leads to overrides in our components.

Author: Here I'm very concerned about the source of this problem, which is our narrow-grid mode guidance... that guidance is up in the 2x-grid and we show these hanging button examples. In fact, this paragraph links to it. Buttons are seen with this left-side hang all over product and Gatsby... people especially do it in dashboards to align the button with the tiles. 

I changed the copy to this:

Ideally, when using groups of related buttons (not including ghost buttons), they should all be the same width. This can be achieved in one of two ways, both of which are acceptable. The first approach involves using the [narrow grid mode](/guidelines/2x-grid/code). In this situation each button would be set individually on the column grid. Note: Carbon developers are working on the narrow grid mode, currently left-hanging buttons can only be achieved with an override.

<Caption>Example of hanging buttons</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

> Some products don’t want to hang their buttons into the gutter, but still want a 16px distance between buttons. This can be achieved while maintaining same-width buttons by treating the button group as a single object (rather than two seperate entities) on the grid. Each button will essentially span 50% of their container with a programmatic 16px gutter between them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some products don’t want to hang their buttons into the gutter, but still want a 16px distance between buttons. This can be achieved while maintaining same-width buttons by treating the button group as a single object (rather than two separate entities) on the grid. Each button will essentially span 50% of their container with a programmatic 16px gutter between them.
```

> Some products don’t want to hang their buttons into the gutter, but still want a 16px distance between buttons. This can be achieved while maintaining same-width buttons by treating the button group as a single object (rather than two separate entities) on the grid. Each button will essentially span 50% of their container with a programmatic 16px gutter between them.

Reviewer 4: Buttons are currently implemented as spanning full-width, up to 320px. I think we could tie this section into the full bleed functionality we could add in. This "size" (or whatever terminology makes sense) would cause the button to span 100% of the container, and placing multiple of them in a row could create this behavior naturally. Could also add in a `ButtonGroup` component or something that helps with wrapping at the small breakpoint

Author: Back in the day working with @tw15egan on buttons, he mentioned that this was how same-size button groups should be implemented. This is probably the single most important update to button guidance for the design community in this PR. We've talked to Diana, Tessa, Erica, Tracey and Kaley about this update. They are already implementing this way on their end. Not sure if we can update the language here somehow, but this guidance is crucial to achieving same size-buttons groups, which is foundational to the system.

</Caption>

</Column>
</Row>

<DoDontRow>
  <DoDont caption="Do apply the same width to all buttons in a group, even if they don’t bleed.">

![Do apply the same width to all buttons in a group](images/button_usage_21.png)

  </DoDont>
  <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not make buttons in a group different widths.">

![Do not make buttons in a group different widths.](images/button_usage_22.png)

  </DoDont>
</DoDontRow>

#### Horizontally arranged groups

When using multiple buttons, the position of the primary button adheres to the [alignment guidance](#Alignment) above. To sum up, a primary button will be left-aligned and positioned to the left of the secondary/tertiary button on full-page designs. The primary button will be right-aligned and appear to the right of the secondary/tertiary button within wizards and dialog windows.

<InlineNotification>

**Note:** This guidance has changed. Previously we advocated maintaining the primary button position to the right of the secondary button when the button group was left-aligned. After talking to teams and doing more research, we’ve revised our position.

</InlineNotification>

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Button groups in context](images/button_usage_23.png)

Reviewer 4: I think the 4th and 5th examples are ones that will require overrides at the moment

Author: I'm sorry I'm confused about which ones you're referring to... can you show me with a grab?

</Column>
</Row>

#### Stacked button groups

> Typical landing pages for product has buttons side by side. However vertical button groups are also common in product in order to save real estate in narrow columns and occassionally side panels. In this instance the primary button is always on top and the secondary or tertiary button is below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Typical landing pages for product have buttons side by side. However vertical button groups are also common in products, to save real estate in narrow columns and occasionally side panels. In these instances, the primary button is always on top and the secondary or tertiary button is below.
```

> Generally, when designers stack buttons, they tend to use the fixed buttons. However, stacked fluid buttons are also an option in desktop side panels with especially long CTAs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally, when designers stack buttons, they tend to use the fixed buttons. However, stacked fluid buttons are also an option in desktop side panels with especially long calls to action. 
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={12}>

> ![Fluid and fixed stacked button group examples](images/button_usage_24.png)

Reviewer 4: I think the first example (fixed) can totally be implemented today, I believe the fluid one would require overrides

Author: I added this copy:

Generally, when designers stack buttons, they tend to use the fixed buttons. However, stacked fluid buttons are also an option in desktop side panels with especially long calls to action. _Note: experimenting with stacked fluid buttons would require an override to the existing code._

</Column>
</Row>

#### Groups with Danger buttons

Danger buttons have a different visual style to inform users of potentially destructive actions they are about to take. Within a set, the danger button should be styled as a primary button.

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

![Danger button treated as Primary button in a modal](images/button_usage_25.png)

</Column>
</Row>

## Content

### Text labels

> A button’s text label is the most important element on a button, as it communicates the action that will be performed when the user touches it. Buttons need to be clear and predictable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A button’s text label is the most important element on a button, as it communicates the action that will be performed when the user interacts with it. Buttons need to be clear and predictable.
```

> Button labels should clearly indicate the action of the button. To provide enough context, use the {verb} + {noun} content formula on buttons except in the case of common actions like “Done”, “Close”, “Cancel”, “Add” or “Delete.”

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Button labels should clearly indicate the action of the button. To provide enough context, use the {verb} + {noun} content formula on buttons except in the case of common actions like “Done”, “Close”, “Cancel”, “Add”, or “Delete.”
```

> There are exceptions to this rule for situations in which button length can cause problems in compact UIs or negatively impact translation, but the {verb} + {noun} formula is still best practice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are exceptions to this rule for situations in which button length could cause problems in compact UIs or negatively impact translation, but the {verb} + {noun} formula is still best practice.
```

For consistency, see Carbon’s [content guidelines](guidelines/content/overview) for a list of recommended action labels.

<DoDontRow>
  <DoDont caption="Do use the {verb} + {noun} content formula in buttons whenever possible.">

![Do use the verb + noun content formula in buttons whenever possible](images/button_usage_26.png)

  </DoDont>
  <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not use only a noun as a button label.">

![Do not use only a noun as a button label](images/button_usage_27.png)

  </DoDont>
</DoDontRow>

## Behavior

> ### Interaction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Interactions
```

#### Mouse

Users can trigger a button by clicking anywhere within the button container.

#### Keyboard

Users can trigger a button by pressing `Enter` or `Space` while the button has focus. For additional keyboard interactions, see the accessibility tab.

#### Screen readers

> VoiceOver: Users can trigger a button by pressing `Enter` or `Space` while the button has focus.

Reviewer 4: Wonder if we could simplify this to:

> For all screen readers, users can trigger a button by pressing `Enter` or `Space` while the button has focus.

Author: If you make a suggestion here I'd be happy to commit it, not sure how to answer that or change this.

Reviewer 4: Would the suggestion I made above work? Or are you looking for something else?

JAWS: Users can trigger a button by pressing `Enter` or `Space` while the button has focus.

NVDA: Users can trigger a button by pressing `Enter` or `Space` while the button has focus.

## Modifiers

### Buttons with icons

> Icons can be placed next to labels to both clarify an action and call attention to a button. There are certain instances where and icon will suffice in place of a text label, but use icon buttons cautiously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Icons can be placed next to labels to both clarify an action and call attention to a button. There are certain instances where an icon will suffice in place of a text label, but use icon buttons cautiously.
```

- Use glyphs (16px) within buttons
- Glyphs are distinguished by their solid shape and knocked-out details
- Glyphs should always appear to the right of the text
- Glyphs used in buttons must be directly related to the action that the user is taking
- Glyphs must be the same color value as the text within a button

<DoDontRow>

>   <DoDont caption="Do place icon on the right side of the button after the text.">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <DoDont caption="Do place the icon on the right side of the button after the text.">
```

> ![Do place icon on the right side of the button after the text](images/button_usage_28.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Do place the icon on the right side of the button after the text](images/button_usage_28.png)
```

  </DoDont>
  <DoDont type="dont" caption="Do not place the icon on the left side of the button before the text.">

![Do not place the icon on the left side of the button before the text](images/button_usage_29.png)

  </DoDont>
</DoDontRow>

> ### Icon only buttons

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Icon-only buttons
```

> Icon buttons allow users to take actions, and make choices, with a single tap. Icon buttons can take the form of any of the 5 types above but most commonly will be styled as primary or ghost buttons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Icon buttons allow users to take actions, and make choices, with a single tap. Icon buttons can take the form of any of the five types above but most commonly will be styled as primary or ghost buttons.
```

<Row>
<Column colLg={8}>

> ![Example of an icon only ghost button in a data table](images/button_usage_30.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Example of an icon-only ghost button in a data table](images/button_usage_30.png)
```

> <Caption>Example of an icon only ghost button in a data table</Caption>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Caption>Example of an icon-only ghost button in a data table</Caption>
```
